---
layout: post
title:      "Why Software Engineering"
date:       2020-09-09 17:05:36 +0000
permalink:  why_software_engineering
---


2020 took me by surprise, to put it lightly. I started this year uncertain of what I wanted to do with my life. I was 6 months out of college, still fresh to the "real world", and spent the fall of 2019 working in academic publishing. I knew that I wanted a change but did not know what that change would look like. 
I have a BFA in Acting and a BA in Philosophy. I felt very comfortable in my identity as a student and for a long time I was certain that I would go straight to pursuing a PhD in Philosophy after getting my bachelors degree. However, the idea of having to navigate the politics of academia (which I got a taste of while working in academic publishing for a few months), questionable work/life balance, and the very palpable uncertainty of job prospects in the field made me wonder if an academic career is worth it for me. I decided against it; after all, I still can research and write philosophy as a hobby. Then I thought about my other degree. Having taken a much needed break from performing arts (if you've ever been in a BFA program, you'll know what I mean), I wondered if now is the time to pursue it professionally. After about a month of auditions and self tapes, the industry and my upcoming projects shut down indefinitely due to the pandemic. Once again, my career trajectory was unclear. 
This summer, a friend of mine suggested that I'd look into coding. I didn't know anything about it but was always intrigued by computer science, so I thought, why not. After doing some research into the field, I realized that some of my favorite aspects of philosophy are actually integral to coding. As a philosophy student, I took some upper level courses on philosophy of truth and logic, and found those topics fascinating and extremely satisfying once they started making sense. I've always loved problem-solving and math, and now that logic was also in the picture, I knew I had to try coding. I did the bootcamp prep and was excited to begin my coding journey at Flatiron. It seems like going into software engineering was the change I needed all along. I can't wait to see what lies ahead. 
